Let's move on and start getting into some
of the nitty gritty cuz we've been very
much at 30,000 feet so far.
And I think it'd be helpful to get into
producing that initial design, right?
Sooner or later,
you got to produce the design concept and
actually start visualizing some of
this stuff and yeah that can be fun.
So let's start by looking at
some techniques to keep in mind
when you're designing, right?
And this is to avoid,
remember what we're trying to avoid?
We're trying to avoid scope creep,
we're trying to avoid kind of
people's subjective opinions and
we're trying to avoid iteration hell.
Those are the key things that
we're trying to get around.
So what can we do as we do design to
avoid some of those things happening?
Well, first thing we can do
is involve the client, right?
And I said earlier about how this is
somewhat counterintuitive that we wanna
exclude the client.
And so we tend to isolate them from
the process of fear that they're gonna
interfere in the design in some way.
However this is really big mistake,
stakeholders are more likely to reject a
design if they haven't contributed to it.
And that big reveal can turn
into an uncomfortable surprise.
So we wanna get them involved,
point one to remember.
Point two is we wanna separate out
the two elements of design, right?
Element one is the aesthetics,
the visual appearance, things like color,
typography, styling, imagery, that kind
of thing and the structure, right?
The layout, the navigation,
those kinds of things because one of
the things I've observed over the so
many years that I've been doing this and
I see this time and time again.
Is a stakeholder can reject
an entire design because they
personally don't like the aesthetics,
right?
I don't like the color so
therefore this design is rubbish.
Well, no, that's not right,
there's a singular issue here.
So by approaching the aesthetics and
the structure separately,
you focus the client or
stakeholder on one thing at a time, rather
than letting them get bogged down with,
get mixing up those different elements.
So I'll show you how to do
these things in a minute but
I just want to lay the principles and
set them in your mind.
And the third one is to
work with real content.
Going back to the question
that was asked earlier,
you cannot separate design from content.
The design process should
begin with the content,
in terms of how it's organized and
how we users can easily access it, right?
We should always be working with
actual content, not Lorem Ipsum.
That doesn't mean final content,
but it does mean something, right?
So those are some techniques to keep
in mind as we move through things.
So how do we start that design process?
Because the temptation is let's open Figma
and really very, very bad idea, right?
In most situations, you don't wanna
start with Figma, so where do you start?
Well, you start by making the content
findable with good navigation.
Now I wanna clarify the word content
here so that I don't fall into
the same trap as I've been doing with
using the word website all the time.
Content in my mind does also
encompass functionality, right?
Content can be words or
it can be functions.
In other words, it can answer questions or
enable tasks, all right?
So just to clarify that.
So really, the first thing you need to
be starting with is that content to
make it findable to organize it in
a way that makes sense to the user.
You can't design anything until
you've got an understanding
about how the site is gonna be navigated.
And to be honest,
have a good understanding of
what the content is going to be.
So this goes back to the question,
we were dealing with of,
well, hang on a minute,
I'm not a copywriter.
How am I supposed to do this bit?
Well, obviously, if you can get
your content creator involved,
that's amazing and definitely do that.
But you'll be surprised at how much
you can do even if you're not actually
a copywriter because don't forget
you're not creating final content here.
First of all, you can identify
what content is needed, right?
You can identify what different types of
content needs to appear on the website.
Whether that be some functional thing,
an interactive map or
an event system or whatever it be.
Or alternatively written content.
What questions the users need answering
for them about this product or service?
What's its benefits, what value does
it provide, those kinds of things.
So and that can include everything from
how the products are described to whether
there's gonna be blog posts on it,
what features, benefits, questions.
All the things you can identify.
And that's really your starting point,
is just identify what
needs to be in this thing.
Then you can start structuring it.
So content needs to be structured
into some kind of hierarchy,
some way of navigating around it that
enables users to quickly find the content
that they require.
So that's the second step.
We haven't opened Figma yet.
We've not thought about colors or
type or anything.
We're just focusing at the minute on
the fundamentals of how this thing is
gonna operate and
then we need to draft it.
We need to, you know don't wait for
your stakeholders to deliver content for
templates that you then prototype.
Just draft some initial copy
that deals with some of these
different things themselves.
Or how this functionality will work, etc.
Now let's talk a little bit more about
drafting the copy or the content.
Now if that content is functionality
that's not too painful.
You're usually writing a little bit of
micro copy and things like that and,
again, it can be changed later.
If you're getting into more of the kind
of marketing content territory
then that feels much more overwhelming.
Cuz that's a lot more difficult and
you have to agree on things like
a value proposition, for crying out loud,
whatever one of those is.
And really this ideally does
need doing in collaboration
with the stakeholders,
you'll find it a lot easier to do it.
But again, I'm a great fan of just
having a go at it yourself because when
you show marketers something rubbish,
then suddenly you'll find that
they start doing their work.
So [LAUGH] there is something to be
said from having to go in it yourself.
But so something like a value
proposition is strapline,
summary of what the company does and
don't be afraid if they've got
a rubbish strapline, right?
Which doesn't actually explain whatever
this thing is that you're doing.
Change it, see what happens.
They'll only change it back,
getting into the benefits,
how does this thing help people?
Why would they wanna buy it,
what do they wanna do on it, etc.
And then the features of,
what does that actually do?
And that formula applies whether
you're doing a marketing site or
even if you're talking about a web app or
a mobile app.
You still need to in a single line
explain what this thing does, right?
You still need to say how
it's gonna help people.
And you still need to say
what features it's got.
So whether you're doing a web app,
whether you're doing a marketing site,
this kind of stuff is necessary.
Now with the kind of micro projects you're
talking about, then isn't relevant to you.
You can pretty much,
it's a lot less of a thing, yeah.
>> We have a question about the content.
Sometimes we deal with
content that is not fixed.
Meaning when you're talking
about translations.
>> Yes.
>> A sentence in English could
be three sentences in Spanish.
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> How do you deal with that?
>> That is a big issue.
I do a lot in Europe.
And German is like a hobby.
Even an individual word can wrap on to
a second line if you're not careful,
it's a big problem.
In those kinds of situations,
you've got to design for
the worst case scenario, right?
So in a scenario like that I would
actually start with the German.
Because I know the German is gonna be
longer and then kind of work backwards.
That said, it is a nuanced thing,
interfaces do need to change for
multiple languages sometimes.
It's a huge area.
So for example, I mean in your situation,
I imagine you're only dealing
with English and Spanish, yeah?
But sometimes, you get into situations of
dealing with languages that read right to
left rather than left to right and
that fundamentally alters the design and
the interface.
So in your situation my
advice is start with,
if you know Spanish is gonna be longer,
work with Spanish first.
But yeah, I mean, it's a difficult area,
there's no magic answers I can
give you on that one I'm afraid.
Are there any more questions in the chat
while we're paused for a second?
No, I'll keep going then.
One of the the other big things in content
that I think I would encourage you to
start thinking about almost on
behalf of the content creators.
Because you don't always get
access to them early enough,
is actually questions,
objections and tasks.
So in the kind of discovery
phase that I talked about,
one of the things I always try and
explore is this idea of questions,
objections and tasks.
What do people want to know?
What do they want to do and
what are they worried about, right?
Cuz your content needs to be
able to adjust for those things.
And actually, that basic principle applies
whether you're doing a marketing site,
or whether you're doing
your little updates.
Things like, for example,
an individual question on a form
field might throw up some objections.
Can I trust these people with my
email address is a classic example.
Or why are they asking for
my date of birth?
Or obviously,
it might have associated tasks or
I've got to get my credit card cuz I
need to enter my credit card number.
All right, now they're gonna walk away,
is it gonna timeout while I do that?
Knowing those constitutional tasks that
go alongside it is really important.
And then answering questions
that they might have.
For example, a great example,
I said I was doing a pet plan websites,
insurance for pets earlier.
And one of the questions that came up
was I don't know my pet's specific
date of birth, is it enough to
put month and year in, all right?
So all of those kinds of things
you kinda need to know beforehand.
And that's part of what your
discovery phase needs to be about.
And then when you move into prototype and
you need to make sure that any content you
put in actually does address
these kinds of different issues.
So it does need to address all
of these different areas, so
how do you go about collecting that stuff,
right?
You obviously,
you can make some educated guesses but
it'd be nice to be a bit more informed,
presuming budget allows it.
So I often speak to sales and
people within the sales team if
I'm working on a marketing site.
For example, if they've got a sales team,
I tend to talk to
them because they're the ones that
are talking to customers on a daily basis.
They know the objections
that customers have got,
they know what questions they ask, etc.
And the same is true if you've
got a customer service team.
So in your example, in your company, they
will be getting calls all the time about,
I didn't know to do this on the website or
I didn't know how to do
that on the website.
Talk to those people, right?
Because they're full of insights
into what people are stumbling over,
what questions they have, what objections
they've got, that kind of stuff.
You could also look at the search terms
people use sometimes on your website,
that can be pretty enlightening for
questions.
Ask users, it's not rocket science
that you speak to some users,
perhaps little survey or
something like that can be really helpful.
Sometimes I will just look at
social media feeds, right?
Who's following you guys on social media?
Go and
have a look at their their content and
what questions they're asking there,
what comments they're making.
But the one thing that I
probably do the most is,
I actually just run a question and
answer workshop.
If I've not got a lot of time and
a lot of money, I'll just try and
get some stakeholders that have regular
contact with the user together in a room.
And we just brainstorm
a load of questions and
their associated answers just to get
people thinking about the content.
It can be quite a challenging area and
you can feel like, well,
that's not really design.
That's the client's problem or
that's the stakeholders problem.
But in truth, I don't think we can kind
of separate it out that easily and
you kinda need to know these things
in order to be able to do the design.